---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "mongodb_index Resource - terraform-provider-mongodb"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Create indexes in MongoDB.
---

# mongodb_index (Resource)

Create indexes in MongoDB.

## Example Usage

```terraform
resource "mongodb_index" "example" {
  database   = "test"
  collection = "test"
  name       = "example"
  keys = [
    {
      "field" : "f1"
      "type" : "asc"
    }
  ]
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `collection` (String) Name of the collection where to create the index.
- `database` (String) Name of the database where to create the index.
- `keys` (Attributes List) The list of fields composing the index. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--keys))
- `name` (String) Name of the index to create.

### Optional

- `collation` (Attributes) Index collation. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--collation))
- `expire_after_seconds` (Number) Documents ttl in seconds for ttl indexes.
- `sparse` (Boolean) Is it a sparse index.
- `unique` (Boolean) Is it a unique index.
- `wildcard_projection` (Map of Number) Projection for wirldcard indexes.

### Read-Only

- `id` (String, Deprecated) The ID of this resource.

<a id="nestedatt--keys"></a>
### Nested Schema for `keys`

Required:

- `field` (String) The name of the field to index.
- `type` (String) The type of index for this field.


<a id="nestedatt--collation"></a>
### Nested Schema for `collation`

Required:

- `locale` (String) The locale.

Optional:

- `alternate` (String) Whether spaces and punctuation are considered base characters.
- `backwards` (Boolean) Causes secondary differences to be considered in reverse order, as it is done in the French language.
- `case_first` (String) The case ordering.
- `case_level` (Boolean) The case level.
- `max_variable` (String) Which characters are affected by alternate: 'shifted'.
- `normalization` (Boolean) Causes text to be normalized into Unicode NFD.
- `numeric_ordering` (Boolean) Whether to order numbers based on numerical order and not collation order.
- `strength` (Number) The number of comparison levels to use.
